from hostile deserts to lonely islands
and the highest mountains wherever there
is space to expand into humans do so
so it's hardly surprising that we're
already making preparations to set foot
on mars and to create the first
permanent colony outside of earth maybe
even terraform another planet and turn
it into a second blue home
but wait before we can get to the nice
future stuff we first have to complete
the second phase of colonization
creating a semi-permanent outpost to
prepare the ground for a larger human
presence
but doing so will be gruesome
[Music]
even for an expansionist species like us
mars is extreme
at first glance mars seems familiar
polar ice caps large valleys liquid
water under its surface and a day barely
longer than earth's the ideal place for
us to go
unfortunately mars is actually a cold
radioactive desert where the ground is
poisonous and breathing is impossible
mars is awful you almost certainly don't
want to go there
the pioneers doing the hard work on mars
will have an intensely stressful life
filled with incredibly challenging
problems never encountered before
but there are plenty of people willing
to do that work and we have the
technology to enable them to do it
for this video we will assume there have
been prior missions to mars to scout out
a good place for an outpost store
resources and equipment and that there's
already a moon base that serves as a hub
for mars missions
the first major challenge for our
outpost is the fact that mars is very
energy poor
because of its distance from the sun
solar power is only 40 percent as
effective as on earth but even this
weakened sunlight is often obscured for
days by enormous dust storms
solar power alone will probably not be
enough
alternatives such as wind power and
geothermal energy are also unfeasible as
there's hardly any atmosphere and mars's
interior is much too cold
initially nuclear technology might be
the only option
since mars doesn't have easily
accessible radioactive elements the
nuclear fuel needs to come from earth
along with the reactor if we do set it
up it could power our small outpost for
the first few years
unfortunately all that energy won't be
very useful if we can't breathe
mars's atmosphere is only one percent as
dense as earth and mostly made up of co2
so our habitats need to be pressurized
and filled with an artificial atmosphere
made of nitrogen and oxygen which comes
with more problems corners and flat
walls are weak points so the habitats
will have rounded and smooth shapes to
handle the stress of great pressure
differences between the interior and
exterior
the airlocks need to be very airtight
and work perfectly every time without an
extensive magnetosphere or a dense
atmosphere half of all radiation coming
from space reaches the ground a person
on the surface would be subjected to 50
times the radiation that they would be
on earth
three years on the surface of mars
exceeds the radiation dose limits
imposed on nasa astronauts for their
entire career
this increases cancer risks
significantly
to prevent that we could shield our
habitats with a thick layer of frozen
co2 that can be harvested directly from
the atmosphere
covering the dry ice with a meter of
dirt would further increase the level of
protection
sadly this means almost no windows from
the inside most living spaces will be
windowless tunnels from the outside
they'll look like burial mounds
all of this would still not hold back
all the radiation but reduce it just
enough to be survivable for long periods
of time
it won't however protect anyone who
ventures outside
so remote controlled robots will be used
for routine work on the surface while
our crew stays inside
staying inside is a good idea for
another reason mars dust
it's much finer than dust on earth so it
could find its way into the gears or
electronics of our machines because it's
also very dry it's electrostatically
charged sticking to everything like
spacesuits it would be impossible to
avoid carrying lots of mars dust into
our habitat and into the lungs of our
crew
to make this even worse mars's sword is
filled with very toxic perchlorate salts
constant exposure could be deadly
this problem can still be overcome
though space suits for example could be
made in a way that they never truly
entered the base but stay attached to
the outside of the habitats
okay great now we've safely isolated
humans in terms of energy and air and
protected them from cancer we just need
to feed them
water is easy to come by if a settlement
is positioned near the martian poles
with their thick layers of ice growing
food is a different kind of challenge
though
mars's soils are alkaline and lack the
vital nitrogen compounds that plants
need to grow
before we can grow anything we will have
to decontaminate the soil which is
difficult and expensive
then the soil can be fertilized using
recycled biological waste all of this
will take a lot of time and is very
energy intensive so we might use
aquaponics to raise fish and plants
together making the astronauts diets
more varied and tasty at the same time
this will be an important psychological
boost for our overworked crew
all of these things don't solve one
fundamental problem though mars has only
38 of earth's surface gravity which
could cause muscle wasting bone loss and
cardiovascular problems
while this might be solved in the future
by setting up rotating living spaces for
now our crew has to live with low
gravity and exercise a lot to slow the
degradation down
the crews will probably have to rotate
every few years after being stuck
indoors in tight spaces without windows
with the same people performing the same
routines day in and day out with little
contact from the outside world and a lot
to worry about
like antarctic scientists or submarine
staff they will undergo intense
psychological screening to make sure
they're mentally resilient enough to
handle this lifestyle for several years
establishing the first real
infrastructure on mars will be extremely
taxing work that only a group of very
determined and competent people can do
luckily we have enough of these on earth
and there you have it a small mars base
that will survive for at least a few
decades as long as it's getting a
constant supply of resources parts
nuclear fuel and crews from earth
unfortunately mars and earth are
separated by millions of kilometers and
orbital periods that leave only a narrow
travel window every two years
if there's an emergency in the colony
earth wouldn't be able to help until the
next travel window opens
helpers may arrive on a planet filled
with corpses
settling mars will be the toughest
challenge we have ever faced it will be
gruesome work to establish the
infrastructure we need but we're
stubborn and we like extreme challenges
if we push through phase two of
colonization anything is possible
cities illuminating the dark martian
night a hub for travel between the
planets industries setting foot in orbit
terraforming a true multi-planetary
future
going to mars is hard but worth it
and if we're lucky we might be around
long enough to see it happening and
cheer on the people who take on these
challenges for the benefit of us all
figuring out complex stuff is one of the
best feelings ever especially if you
don't have to do it all by yourself our
friends from brilliant can help you out
with that part
brilliant is a problem-solving website
with a hands-on approach
instead of just dropping tricky concepts
in front of you they help you unravel
them bit by bit and build up to an
interesting conclusion
this way science becomes something you
actually do actively and not only hear
about
with brilliant you can bear down on
dozens of interesting courses and
puzzles about topics like solar energy
gravity and astronomy
if you visit brilliant.org nutshell or
click the link in the description you
can sign up for free and learn all kinds
of things and as a bonus for quartzkazak
viewers the first 688 people will also
get 20 off their annual membership
with brilliant you finish your day a
little bit smarter
and no mars dust to deal with we promise
can't get enough of mars we've also made
a poster about it
you can learn some more about the
hardships of mars colonization or just
look at the pretty colours go get it
here
[Music]
great